+++
title = "Glossary"
date = 2021-11-26T08:20:00+00:00
weight = 20
template = "docs/page.html"

[extra]
toc = true
top = false
+++

In the BNA Mechanics world, there are a lot of concepts which use a lot of
words, some times even different ones to say the same thing. The goal of this
glossary is to reduce the confusion and improve the clarity of the vocabulary
used in the different projects.

---

**Bicycle Network Analysis (BNA)**. Software that analyzes the quality and
connectivity of bike infrastructure in cities.

**City Ratings**. A PeopleForBikes program that ranks cities based on their City
Rating generated by the BNA.

**BNA Analysis**. A set of actions that is used to produce the BNA Output for a
single city.

**BNA Output**. The set of files and data generated by the BNA Analysis for a
single city.

**Rating**. (Or a city rating) A score out of 100 points representing the
quality and connectivity of the bike network in a given area (typically a city)
generated by the BNA. The City Rating is one value contained within a city's BNA
Output.

**Category Score**. One of six subscores that are combined in a weighted average
to generate the City Rating. The six category scores are People, Core Services,
Opportunity, Recreation, Retail, and Transit.

**Core Services Subscore**. One of six OpenStreetMap destination-type scores
that are combined in a weighted average to generate the Core Services Category
Score. The six Core Services Subscores are Dentists, Doctors, Grocery,
Hospitals, Pharmacies, and Social Services.

**Opportunity Subscore**. One of four OpenStreetMap destination-type scores that
are combined in a weighted average to generate the Opportunity Category Score.
The four Opportunity Subscores are Employment, Higher Education, K12 Education,
and Tech/Vocational College.

**Recreation Subscore**. One of three OpenStreetMap destination-type scores that
are combined in a weighted average to generate the Recreation Category Score.
The three Recreation Subscores are Community Centers, Parks, and Trails.

**Rank**. A city’s numerical place among all cities rated (can be subdivided by
country, region, state, population size), e.g. 4 out of 158 small U.S. cities

**BNA Mechanics**. Open-source working group, including volunteers

**Brochure**. A visual document that can be distributed as an image (usually PNG
or SVG file), a PDF file or a print.

**City Snapshot**. A feedback form on the City Ratings website that enables
people to provide input to inform the future BNA Result for their city, such as
local speed limits.

**Scorecard**. A specific kind of brochure that summarizes City Ratings data for
each rated city.

**SPRINT**. Acronym summarizing the main factors that impact the BNA Score.

- **S**afe Speeds
- **P**rotected Bike Lanes
- **R**eallocated Space
- **I**ntersection Treatments
- **N**etwork Connections
- **T**rusted Data

**Infrastructure**. Refers to any facility that is built to allow people to move
around using a bike or other micromobility device that typically travels under
20 mph (32 km/h).

**Pipeline**: A set of actions being executed automatically in a specific order.

**BNA pipeline**: Pipeline used to collect all the required input data to run a
BNA analysis.

### Incubating

> **WARNING: the terms bellow are still waiting to be defined properly. They may
> or may not be included in the glossary.**

**Shortcode**. A 2 to 4 letter code used in CSV file headers to simplify their
inclusion in templates during a data-merge operation, typically using SVGGloo.
The associated values may be rounded to be integers instead of decimals.

**ShortCityRatings**. A version of the **city ratings** where the headers are
shortcodes and the values are rounded to be integers instead of decimals.

**Shortscorecard**. A **scorecard** with the shortened headers and rounded
integer values.

**Template**. A file, typically an SVG file but it could be any text-based file
format, whose goal is to be combined with a shortcode CSV file during a
data-merge operation.

**Quadruplet**: A set of four terms needed to instigate a Job in the Analysis
Pipeline. The four terms include the city name, region, country, and FIPS code.

**Job**: A task for the BNA to process a single city in the Analysis Pipeline
and generate BNA Output. A job exists in one of four states: submitted, waiting,
processing, or completed.

**Submitted Job**: A quadruplet that has been submitted to the BNA but has not
yet received administrator approval to start processing.

**Waiting Job**: A submission that has been approved for processing, but has not
yet started processing.

**Processing Job**: A submission that has been approved and started processing.

**Completed Job**: A submission that has finished processing and yielded a BNA
Result.
